>> Steve Kinney: So
we're gonna follow one of our themes,
which is to look at this library
in isolation of react first,
and then figuring out how
to tie it into react.
So this is like vanilla
JavaScript DOM manipulation.
All I've done so far is I've got
this input field that I will
eventually be able to type into it now.
And I'll have these two fields
which will show me the text
that I wrote in the input field and
also show it to me in uppercase as well.
Right, and what I wanna have
happen is we're just gonna use
the vanilla JavaScript and mob X first
to kind of see some of these things.
And then we'll tie it into react.
I put these console.logs in here
because I have a type a personality and
the esLint error is saying like,
hey, you have these variables and
you're not using them was a little much
for me so we can get rid of that line.
Like that was enough to drive me nuts.
So we've got these and so
we can create some object, right?
You can see we've got we're pulling in
two things from our backs Observable and
Auto Run, right?
Observable is we wanna say, hey,
this object, we wanna to look and
feel like a regular JavaScript object, but
we need to know when it changes, right.
And we're gonna do stuff
based on that change, right?
And so we can for instance.
[SOUND] Say text.
And we're doing this without
decorators at first.
Let's say, observable.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and we'll say,
all right, this thing has got a value.
Hello world, and
we'll give it one of those get_uppercase,
we'll give you one of those getters.
>> Steve Kinney: Too much cards and
less and
that will return this.value.to uppercase.
>> Steve Kinney: And
like if we didn't wrap it in observable,
we'd still get an object that had
a value of hello world and we said,
text.uppercase, we would get
the uppercase version of that, but
we would never know when it changed.
Right, and that's the whole problem
with figuring out when we need to
re-render the down.
When the state has changed,
update the UI to reflect that state.
How do you know the state has changed,
right?
We saw problems with this before we
had referentially equal arrays, or
like sometimes with
the reactor form it is,
referentially different functions
that trigger a rerun, right?
This whole super-like great
part of JavaScript is also
sometimes problematic for us, and
a lot of these are ways to handle this.
So also, let's make an EventListener,
>> Steve Kinney: addEventListener,
add a 'keyup',
>> Steve Kinney: We'll take the event and
that text object that we just created,
we're gonna reassign it's value.
>> Steve Kinney: event.target.value.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
now what happens is,
every time this object changes,
I want to update the DOM.
We're having like a almost
a dumb lee sample version of
react that is no different anything.
Anytime the text up value changes
which will happen whenever I type
in this input field, go and
do some stuff right.
And I can just treat this like.
You notice I'm not doing anything.
I'm not using a function.
I'm not making a call back.
I'm not using a ventimeter.
I'm just saying, hey, that object
I wanna reassign your property.
So we'll go ahead and
we'll say this autorun.
>> Steve Kinney: Takes a function.
And any observable that comes in
there it kind of looks through them.
Says like, cool.
I wanna do some stuff, right?
So we could say like textDisplay.
We might actually like do
the input field like reactive, but
we'll try it out textDisplay.textContent
= text.value, right?
Soon as that all that it's
doing is it is saying hey,
this is going to run whenever and
observed object inside of
it is changed in any way.
>> Steve Kinney: Right, and
all I'm doing this event
listener is I'm not firing event.
There's no, again,
there's no eventimeters.
There's nothing I'm just
mutating an object.
And like, hey, Steve, didn't you
spend like a good few hours telling
me one does that simply mutate objects?
I did say that it was technically true,
right?
Again, really cool abstractions make
really awesome stuff be able to
happen, right?
And so I can also say the like,
loudDisplay.
>> Steve Kinney: Equals text.uppercase,
right.
And like that, I'm just using it's
technically calling a function that's
taking that value and doing stuff, but you
can see that it just pretty much works,
it gives us these very nice subtractions.
And when we get these into
like a React application,
the autorun part will even
be hidden from us, right?
We're just gonna go mutating some objects,
and
our DOM is gonna re-render, and
it's all gonna be magical and wonderful.
Which it's pretty,
pretty neat in this case.
All right, cool.
So, let's go back for a second.
>> Steve Kinney: I'll show you one more.
This is where the class.
Where I can also like decorate it as such.
Well actually look at this when
we look at the react version.
This is using react but there are ways to.
I showed you with an object literal.
I also just wanted to
show you with a class and
we'll see what the decorators in,
in a few seconds.
So what could this begin to look like?
>> Steve Kinney: When we start
to use the decorator syntax,
it's gonna be pretty, pretty interesting.
>> Steve Kinney: Like this is effectively
a kind of a version of what we had.
That isn't totally real.
That kind of shows like
what's kind of happening.
This is what it begins to look
like when you use the decorators.
You can basically say these
properties on this class,
these are the ones that I am observing.
These are the ones that when they change,
I want to know more about them.
And like if you can't use the decorators
you could do something like this.
You saw the other decorate
one that I had before.
And you could theoretically
write some of this stuff.
This stresses you out.
Don't worry about it cuz
you don't have to do this.
It's given to you by the library,
so on and so forth.